Update Notifications documentation README.md (#5253)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 11/umbraco-cms/reference/notifications/README.md

# Using Notifications

Umbraco uses Notifications (similar to the Observer pattern) to allow you to hook into the workflow process for the backoffice. For example, notifications allow you to execute some code every time a page is published.

## Notifications

All notifications reside in the `Umbraco.Cms.Core.Notifications` namespace and are postfixed with `Notification`.

Available notifications typically exist in pairs, with "before" and "after" notifications. For example, the ContentService class has the concept of **publishing** and **published** notifications. So, there is both a `ContentPublishingNotification` and a `ContentPublishedNotification` notification.

> The notification to use depends on what you want to achieve. If you want to be able to cancel the action, you would use the "before" notification and use the `CancelOperation` method on the notification to cancel it. See the sample in [ContentService Notifications](contentservice-notifications.md). If you want to execute some code after the publishing has succeeded, then you would use the "after" notification.

Reviewer: Made a suggestion to shorten the long sentence in this paragraph.

```suggestion
The notification to use depends on what you want to achieve. If you want to be able to cancel the action, you would use the `CancelOperation` method on the "before" notification. See the sample in [ContentService Notifications](contentservice-notifications.md). If you want to execute some code after the publishing has succeeded, then you would use the "after" notification.
```

### Notification handlers lifetime

> It's important to note that the handlers you create and register to receive notifications will be **transient**; this means that they will be initialized every time they receive a notification, so you cannot rely on them having a specific state based on previous notifications. For instance, you cannot create a list in a handler, add something when a notification is received, and then check if that list contains what you added in an earlier notification. That list will always be empty because the object has just been initialized.

Reviewer: A suggestion that should clean up the 4 vale warnings in this paragraph.

```suggestion
It's important to know that the handlers you create and register to receive notifications will be **transient**. This means that they will be initialized every time they receive a notification. You can therefore not rely on them having a specific state based on previous notifications. 

As an example, you cannot do the following:

1. Create a list in a handler.
2. Add something when a notification is received.
3. Check if that list contains what you added in an earlier notification.

When following the steps above, the list will always be empty because the object has only been initialized.
```

> If you need persistence between notifications, we recommend you move that functionality into a service or similar, register it with the DI container, and inject it into your handler.

Reviewer: A suggestion to split 1 long sentence into two shorter ones.

```suggestion
If you need persistence between notifications, we recommend you move that functionality into a service or similar. You can then register it with the DI container, and inject it into your handler.
```

### Registering notification handlers

> Once you've made your notification handlers, you need to register them with the `AddNotificationHandler` extension method on the `IUmbracoBuilder` to run them whenever a notification they subscribe to is published. There are two ways to do this: 

Reviewer: Another suggestion to shorten/split up a long sentence.

```suggestion
Once you've made your notification handlers, you need to register them with the `AddNotificationHandler` extension method on the `IUmbracoBuilder`. This is done to be able to run them whenever a notification they subscribe to is published. There are two ways to do this: 
```

1. In the **Startup** class, if you're making handlers for your site

> 2. In a [**composer**](https://docs.umbraco.com/umbraco-cms/implementation/composing), if you're a package developer subscribing to notifications

Reviewer: This link here should be a relative one - otherwise it will open in a new tab 😅 

Without checking, it would be something like `../../implementation/composing.md`.

Author: Good point, done!

## Other notifications

* See [ContentTypeService Notifications](contentypeservice-notifications.md) for a list of the ContentTypeService object notifications.
* See [MediaTypeService Notifications](mediatypeservice-notifications.md) for a list of the MediaTypeService object notifications.
* See [MemberTypeService Notifications](membertypeservice-notifications.md) for a list of the MemberTypeService object notifications.
* See [DataTypeService Notifications](datatypeservice-notifications.md) for a list of the DataTypeService object notifications.
* See [FileService Notifications](fileservice-notifications.md) for a list of the FileService object notifications.
* See [LocalizationService Notifications](localizationservice-notifications.md) for a list of the LocalizationService object notifications.

## Tree notifications

See [Tree Notifications](../../extending/section-trees/) for a list of the tree notifications.

## Editor Model Notifications

See [EditorModel Notifications](editormodel-notifications/) for a list of the EditorModel events

{% hint style="info" %}

> Useful for manipulating the model before it is sent to an editor in the backoffice - e.g. to set a default value of a property on a new document.

Reviewer: Another suggestion to shorten/split up a long sentence.

```suggestion
Useful for manipulating the model before it is sent to an editor in the backoffice. It could be used to set a default value of a property on a new document.
```

{% endhint %}

## Creating and publishing your own custom notifications

> Umbraco uses notifications to allow people to hook into various workflow processes. This notification pattern is extensible, allowing you to create and publish your own custom notifications, thus allowing other people to observe and hook into your custom processes. This approach can be very useful when creating Umbraco packages. For more information on how you create and publish your own notifications, see the [creating and publishing notifications](creating-and-publishing-notifications.md) article.

Reviewer: Another suggestion to shorten/split up a long sentence.

```suggestion
Umbraco uses notifications to allow people to hook into different workflow processes. This notification pattern is extensible, allowing you to create and publish custom notifications, and other people to observe and hook into your custom processes. This approach can be very useful when creating Umbraco packages. For more information on how you create and publish your own notifications, see the [creating and publishing notifications](creating-and-publishing-notifications.md) article.
```
